kubectl get pod deployment-name1-57c6bdcc67-xfm6l -o yaml  (to get pod yaml file)

service node port :-

30000 to 32767 range service node port
pods will run in deff ip adress within thd cluseter.
every pod will have its own ip adress...pod is an process
pods are wont have static ip...its dynamic ip..
one pod to another pod communication will happen through services
service nodeport will save node ips automatically through the labels
services will have endpoint list
in that all pods and ips will store
service is virtual server inside the node..

clusterip will provide node to node communication
nodeport  will prodide to acces the appliction in outside
loadbanacder will maintain the load balance




nodes: physical or virtal
        its a worker machine where the conatainers will b lanched
        need to have more than one node
cluster: will have multiple nodes
master: in kubernetes there wil b a master which controll all the nodes

when you intall kubernetes these components will install
along with it.

api server - its frentend to kubernetes user and command line management devices all will communicate to kubernetes cluster through api server
etcd - its a key value store. it will store the kubernetes cluster data masters and nodes data in cluster.
kubelet are responsible to run the container in the nodes as expected
container runtime- is the underlying framework that is responsible for running application in containers like Docker?

controller -will take of container like if node or contaiers will done...it will take care of that.
scheduler -will distribute the work and container accross multiple nodes scheduler responsible for distributing work or containers across multiple nodes.  

pods: pods are container in kubernets cluster - its an single instance in kubernets
      The smallest unit you can create in Kubernetes object model is pods


masternode:
ETCD : it will store the kubernetes data in the form of keyvalues.
kube-scheduler: it will decide which node is suiatable for this app or pod or container. according to the resources.

controller:
 node controller: its responsible is to controll the nodes on kubernetes.
 replica-controller: it will take care of replication nodes...take care of 
                    desired running replica contain
kube-apiserver   - its responsible for all archistra of the cluster.

ReplicaSet ensures that desired number of PODs always run

deployment: in deployment upgrade the application and rollback the application to previos version 
              this things will be ther in deployemtn 
if pods are in pending state it mean there is no node specified.

taints - tolaration
taints  are 3
noschedule - no pods will scheule
prefernoschedule- try to avoid placing on the nodes that is not guarenteed
no execution.- new pods will not b schedule and the existing pods if not tolerate they will be removed.

